The Hospital Management System is designed to support the daily operations of a healthcare institution by integrating patient 
management, medical services, staff coordination, and administrative processes into a unified digital platform that can be used by 
anyone. In order for the system to work properly and functionally we have decided on these requirements that the developers must necessarily
implement in order for it to fulfill the tasks for each specific user and improve work efficency in the hospital enviroments.

1. The system will have the database that will hold information for each patients that gets registered in the hospital
such as name, birth year, their payement and their past medical records whether it is from this hospital or other credited institutions,
etc.

2.The patients can search on the system for who is the best kind of doctor they should consult in relation to their symptoms, current
conditions or medical status and be able to book an appointement with that doctor. The system will show the free time slots that the
doctor is available and choose the one that is the most convenient for them.

3. The system should be able to generate documents based on current data held by the database and doctors notes that document
a patients diagnosis, appointments and treatment which a person with proper identification and authorization can request
printed copy of at the reception.

4. The system should be able to process different kind of payements and keep track of all the different bills that are fiscalized
and their information such as payement amounr, payement method, insurance companies, the services that were provided and wether the 
person will pay it at once or in small increments.

5. The database will also hold information for the different medication that are stored in the pharmacy inventory, such as the medicine
name and the doctor who is authorized in recommending this precription as well verifying if the doctor precription is legit and storing
informtion about the patients that is using the precription and the sytem will also generate bill for the purchased item.

6. The System can also take laboratory requests to analyze certain componets from the requester. Some test results can be requested by
anyone but others are exclusive to only to verified staff. The system will keep track of request date, the requesters information ,
the test results and the date the test results are out as well as notify the user when they are out.

7. The system will also hold information about the staff such as their departament, status, payement, as well
as view information on the medical files of the doctors or patients that are stored in the database and it will allow
the administrtor of the bussiness update information about the staff. The admin can also view bills and calculate monthly earnings.

The system should improve operational efficiency, data accuracy, patient safety, and communication between hospital departments.
The HMS must be accessible through a secure web interface and must maintain confidentiality and integrity of sensitive medical data.

The system will support multiple user roles, each with specific permissions.

1. System Administrator

Responsible for system configuration, user management, and security.

Permissions include:

a. Manage user accounts

b. Assign user roles

c. Configure system settings

d. Monitor system logs

e. Maintain data backups

2. Doctor

Responsible for patient diagnosis and treatment.

Permissions include:

a. View patient records

b. Update medical records

c. Create prescriptions

d. Request laboratory tests

e. Manage appointments

3. Nurse

Supports doctors and monitors patient conditions.

Permissions include:

a. View assigned patient records

b. Record patient vitals

c. Update treatment progress

d. Assist in scheduling treatments

4. Receptionist

Handles patient registration and appointment scheduling.

 Permissions include:

a. Register new patients

b. Schedule appointments

c. Update patient information

d. Check appointment availability

5. Pharmacist

Manages medication inventory and prescriptions.

Permissions include:

a. View prescriptions

b. Dispense medications

c. Update pharmacy inventory

d. Track medication usage

6. Billing officer.

Responsible for financial operations, and billing administration.

Permissions include:

a. Generate patients bill

b. Records patients insurance information.

c. Process patient payement.

d. Generate financial report.

7. Human Resources officer.

Responsible for staff management and payroll.

Permissions includes:

a. Updates staff information.

b. Register new satff members.

c. Process staff payerolls payements.

d. Generate payeroll reports.